[THEME MUSIC]
[CHAMBER MUSIC PLAYING]
Thank you.
A most wonderful
evening, William.
Yes, the dance lessons were
worth every penny of the $8.
[LAUGHTER]
That's true.
But I was actually referring
to the event itself.
Ah, yes, of course.
I wonder what marvel
Mr. Blake has brought
back from the bone fields.
We shall soon see.
I believe the man
himself has arrived.
Ah!
Who knew dinosaur hunters
would become such celebrities?
Yes, perhaps
someday everyone will
be as fascinated
with pathologists
and police detectives.
[LAUGHTER]
Rudolph.
I'm surprised to see you here.
I wouldn't miss this
evening, Barkeley.
You must be a glutton
for punishment.
Mr. Premier!
Uh, wait, wait-- I--
I'd like a sandwich.
I heard this afternoon of a
new light that can actually
see through solid objects?
Oh, yes, I've heard of this
as well-- Roentgen's rays.
Or as he prefers to
call them, x-rays.
DR. OGDEN: Yes!
There's actually a
working prototype
of his very machine, the
radiograph, at the hospital.
DET.
MURDOCH: Oh!
[CLINKING GLASS]
Ladies and gentlemen,
distinguished guests,
members of the National
Geographic Society, my name
is Mary Ann McConnell.
And for the last six years, it
has been my distinct privilege
to work alongside
one of the world's
foremost paleontologists and
bone hunters, Barkeley Blake.
[APPLAUSE]
MARY ANN MCCONNELL: As you are
all aware, eight years ago,
it was Barkeley's
remarkable discovery
of an almost intact theropod--
Remarkably lucky.
MARY ANN MCCONNELL: --skull that
turned Canadian paleontology
on its head.
-Shh!
I'm sorry.
MARY ANN MCCONNELL: Well,
tonight, good people,
Mr. Blake will reveal a find
that exceeds even that success.
I give you Barkeley Blake.
[APPLAUSE]
Publicity seeker.
Really, sir, I must
ask you to be quiet.
Oh, of course.
Thank you, Miss McConnell.
[FLASH BULB BURST]
Thank you all for coming.
The Alberta Badlands.
Millions of years ago,
it was a vast inland sea,
its shores as lush as any
jungle you could imagine.
Today, hot and barren.
Nothing I'd ever
found in all my years
had prepared me for what
awaited me in a nearby coulee.
What nature had entombed
for millions of years
took me mere days to unearth.
And when I did, I changed the
face of paleontology yet again.
[CROWD EXCLAIMS]
Ladies and gentlemen,
I give you Terrasaurus.
(SHOUTING)
Blasphemers, all of you!
Praise be to God!
[CROWD EXCLAIMS]
Wait!
Stop!
DR. OGDEN: William.
He's dead.
Oh, my.
His name was Lukas DeWitt.
He was a field assistant
on Mr. Blake's expedition.
INSP.
BRACKENREID: Clearly
he was placed there
after the dinosaur was erected.
Do we know who had
access to the room?
Constable Crabtree is
ascertaining that as we speak.
And the boy with the hammer?
Some religious
zealot, I take it?
Well, dinosaurs and
evolution are prickly subjects
with the church, sir.
INSP.
BRACKENREID: Mm.
Enough to kill over?
Possibly.
However, he seemed intent
on vandalizing that bone.
And he also seemed
just as surprised
by the murder as everyone else.
Still, we'll need to
have a chat with him.
Yes.
The men are searching
for him now.
And have him check the local
churches, especially the ones
with ministers who are preaching
the old fire and brimstone.
Of course.
I should take a moment
with the chief constable.
Doctor, is our victim
telling us anything?
It appears he was shot.
The bullet penetrated
the skull here.
Any gunshot residue?
No.
Suggesting the killer
stood some distance
away from the victim.
Any estimates on
the time of death?
The rigor is odd.
The best estimate I can
give you is 24 to 48 hours.
May I take the body?
Yes, of course.
We never got to try
out our two-step.
I hope to have
another opportunity.
[CHUCKLES DEMURELY]
As do I.
Good night.
George, any luck
with the interviews?
The hall was a veritable
hive of activity,
sir, dozens of people preparing
the exhibit for the party.
Any one of them could come
and go as they wished.
We'll have to ascertain
the whereabouts
of each and every one.
Sir.
What a bizarre
thing to do, to make
such a spectacle of the victim.
Yes.
I believe he was making
an example of him.
What could he have
done to deserve that?
DET.
MURDOCH: A very good
question, George.
BARKELEY BLAKE: For six months,
Lukas was by my side-- working,
eating, digging, drinking.
He knew his strata like
no one I've ever met.
Did he have any enemies?
None that I know
of, but bone hunting
can be a dangerous business.
Two men guard the perimeter of
my camp at night, you realize.
Oh?
Why?
Well, the bones are priceless.
There's constant
danger from raiders.
Ah.
And these raiders,
who might they be?
Oh, sometimes
they're just hired
thugs out to steal
the bones and sell
them to private collectors.
And other times?
Rival dinosaur hunters.
No doubt you know of Othniel
Marsh and Edward Cope.
The Bone Wars, yes.
I've heard stories.
They're all true, I assure you.
That pair was
notorious for trying
to destroy one another's
digs, for stealing
one another's fossils.
Their animosity towards each
other was also their downfall.
In the end, yes.
What about this young
man with the hammer?
In some ways, those religious
sorts frighten me the most.
They're completely irrational.
Ah.
Had you ever seen him before?
Never.
And Mr. DeWitt, when
did you last see him?
Well, that's the
shocking part, Detective.
The last I saw him,
he was in Alberta.
Alberta?
Yes.
He'd stayed behind to supervise
the packing up of the camp.
Do you have any idea why he
would come here to Toronto?
It's completely beyond me.
[SIGH] One final question.
Who would have the logistical
know-how to pull this off?
I'm not entirely sure.
With my schedule, I really
don't have time to supervise
day-to-day affairs.
I see.
And who does?
MARY ANN MCCONNELL:
I personally shrouded
the femur and the dinosaur.
Barkeley wanted
secrecy so we could
dramatically reveal the fossil.
Were you the last
person in the hall?
I think so.
It was so late.
I-- I wanted everything
to be perfect.
Could someone have
stayed behind unseen,
or slipped in later?
I suppose it's possible.
And when did you
last see Mr. DeWitt?
Uh, the night before
we left our camp.
We worked together so closely.
I would have thought he'd
tell me if he was coming.
I can't stop working, it seams.
I'm afraid if I do, I--
Miss McConnell, may I?
It's an ungula, yes?
Most people would
call it a claw.
From the Albertosaur,
I believe.
You've studied paleontology.
Well, it's been an obsession
of mine since childhood.
For me, too.
Still is, obviously.
Miss McConnell, I
understand that Mr.
Blake has enemies-- rivals.
Are you suggesting
that they may have done
this to get back at Barkeley?
It's a possibility
that I must explore.
Is there anyone in particular
that comes to mind?
There is one person.
PROFESSOR SUTTON:
Barkeley Blake is
a-- is a gaseous,
bloated mental midget who
just happened to pull the wool
over the scientific world's
eyes.
Clearly, Professor Sutton,
you do not care for Mr. Blake.
No, um, uh, I adore the way
people confuse scientific rigor
with nice teeth.
Perhaps you disliked him so
much that you took action.
You're talking
about Lukas DeWitt.
Good god, man.
If I-- if I had gone
to those lengths,
it would've been Barkeley
caught in those teeth.
Professor, I don't understand
your dislike of Mr. Blake.
Five years ago, Barkeley
Blake was simply a geologist
mapping coal deposits.
He happened to stumble
upon a dinosaur skull,
and now he passes himself
off as a paleontologist.
And everyone laps it up.
But you can't deny
that Mr. Blake has now
made two stunning discoveries.
That is not paleontology.
That is carnival showmanship.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Here, look.
Take that.
That is paleontology.
That is what matters.
It's a fossilized plant.
More than that, Detective.
That is the basis of life.
That is paleontology.
That-- this is what matters.
This is the slow, methodical
exploration of a world
that no longer exists.
Please-- my collection is
very specifically organized.
Thank you.
It is not the hunt
for fame and fortune.
Professor, you're obviously
very passionate about this.
My understanding is
so much so that you'd
be willing to sabotage
Mr. Blake's efforts.
Oh.
Barkeley is portraying
himself as the victim.
I see.
Yes, yes, yes, that's
not surprising.
Do you deny this?
Shipments of my fossils
have been hijacked.
An entire rock face that I
was excavating was dynamited.
Please answer my question, sir.
If there's a war,
I didn't start it.
I'll need to make an
account of your whereabouts
over the past few days.
Well, I was-- I was here.
I was cataloguing.
Alone, I take it?
Well-- well, I don't
have dozens of students
to do my work for
me while I gallivant
with the rich and famous.
GEORGE: What became
of them, sir?
George.
What became of whom?
The dinosaurs.
Well, their
extinction remains one
of the world's great mysteries.
You know, I heard tales
that they still exist,
that they're hidden in
the unexplored headwaters
of the Congo and the Amazon.
That's bollocks.
If they're anywhere,
they're probably
in the Highlands of Scotland,
possibly in Loch Ness.
Oh, yes, Loch Ness.
"The Loch Ness Dinosaur."
That's got a bit
of a ring to it.
I've put a request into the
North-West Mounted Police.
Someone's going to ride
out to Blake's dig site
and see if anyone left there can
tell us what DeWitt was up to.
That could take some time.
George, what do you have for me?
Well, I looked into Mr.
DeWitt's personal life.
Apparently he was quite
liked by all his chums.
He also told them
that he recently
became sweet on somebody,
but he hadn't said who.
We'll need to have
a word with her.
I'll track her down.
We're also looking
into all the alibis
of anybody who had access to the
exhibit, but it's a long list.
What about the young
man with the hammer?
We've checked with
various church groups,
and nothing so far.
Mr. DeWitt arrived by train.
Have we checked
with Union Station?
We have, and there's no
record of a Lukas DeWitt
traveling by sleeper class.
He could have traveled coach.
Bugger that.
No DeWitt is going
to travel coach.
What makes you so sure?
The family stinks of money.
They're American,
from Philadelphia.
Made their fortune in
bedsprings, I believe.
Oh, those DeWitts.
Ah, the bedspring
DeWitts of Philadelphia.
Well, perhaps money
is the motive.
Yes, perhaps.
George, see if Mr. DeWitt's
accounts have been touched.
In the meantime, I
believe Dr. Ogden
has post-mortem results for me.
Yes, Murdoch.
Er, about that.
I can't open the body,
and there's absolutely
nothing I can do about it.
It's signed by
the Chief Coroner.
The DeWitts are sending
an American pathologist?
Apparently I'm not
qualified enough.
The audacity.
Well, this is preposterous.
We need those results to
conduct our investigation.
Well, fortunately,
nothing precluded
me from studying the body.
Plaster.
Yes.
I found traces of it, as well
as these brownish fibers all
over his clothes
and exposed skin.
[HAMMERING]
The fossils from
Mr. Blake's dig
were wrapped in burlap
and plaster for shipping.
Are you suggesting his body
was preserved, like a fossil?
Perhaps a form of
short-term mummification?
The lack of oxygen would
have impeded the natural decay
of the body, explaining why
I've been having trouble
pinpointing the time of death.
But more importantly,
it would suggest
that he was killed
where the fossils
were prepared for shipment.
Mr. Blake's camp in Alberta.
I believe we need to rethink
this entire investigation.
INSP.
BRACKENREID: You're suggesting
that someone shot DeWitt
in Alberta, plastered
his body in Alberta,
transported it on a
train from Alberta,
and placed it in a
dinosaur's jaws in Toronto.
Yes, sir.
Excellent theory, Murdoch.
Sounds entirely plausible to me.
Sir, it would explain
why we have no record
of him arriving in Toronto.
Hmm.
I did hear back from the
North-West Mounted Police,
and apparently DeWitt
vanished from the camp the day
that the bones were shipped.
Someone wants us to think
that he was murdered here.
Not in Alberta.
So who would have the means
to do something like this?
Anyone who prepared fossils
for shipment in Alberta
would have both the
knowledge and access
to necessary equipment.
Exactly.
Then we're looking for someone
from Blake's camp, aren't we?
George, I'd like you to find
Mr. DeWitt's field journals.
Of course.
DET.
MURDOCH: Please
review them and tell
me precisely what Mr. DeWitt
was working on at the dig.
He was killed for a
reason, and perhaps
they can tell us what it is.
Right away, sir.
He was packed with the fossils?
How monstrous.
DET.
MURDOCH: Indeed.
But what I find perplexing
is that a bone that large
went by unnoticed.
It must've been at least
six feet in length.
Well, as you can see, we--
we do have many specimens,
and we ship many larger pieces.
But I'll speak
with my assistants
and see if they saw anything.
I would appreciate that.
I see you're packing
the Terrasaurus femur.
Have you another exhibition?
No, actually, it's been
sold to the American
Museum of Natural History.
Oh.
Not a Canadian institution?
I find that surprising.
Well, only the Americans
could afford the expense--
and the size, fortunately.
Fortunately?
Otherwise it would end
up in private hands.
And I believe that
would be a shame.
Ah, I agree.
However, you seem to have
procured a fossil for yourself.
An ammonite, I believe?
Yes.
W-well, they are plentiful.
And, uh, it has significance.
Lukas DeWitt had a sweetheart.
It was you, wasn't it?
Yes.
He gave it to me, that
last night at the camp,
to help remember him
while we were apart.
Why didn't you tell me
of your relationship?
I suppose I didn't want to
be perceived as anyone's gal.
Miss McConnell,
that hardly seems
a viable reason not to tell me.
Detective, it's very difficult
to be a female paleontologist.
And one who does
fieldwork is unheard of.
Oh, it's no use.
You would never understand.
I think I do.
You wanted to be respected.
Just to be taken
seriously for my abilities.
But I would never,
never harm Lukas.
He gave me that respect.
Tsk.
Unlike some others.
Others?
Barkeley.
A serious misstep in
my personal history.
And did Mr. Blake know of
your involvement with Lukas?
He did.
Made things terribly awkward.
How so?
As you no doubt can imagine,
Barkeley doesn't like
to finish second to anyone.
BARKELEY BLAKE: The
ramblings of a bitter woman.
You deny you were jealous?
Lukas and I had words, but only
because I could see the scope
of things and he couldn't.
The scope?
When you've examined life on
the scale of millions of years,
as I have, you realize that we
are but a brief moment in time.
A woman won or lost
doesn't matter.
Apparently Mr. DeWitt
considered Miss McConnell
more than a moment in time.
Mary Ann is an
excellent assistant,
but her dreams exceed her grasp.
To make a truly
remarkable discovery,
you need an instinct and an
almost preternatural affinity
for the world around you.
I see.
And Miss McConnell
lacks instinct?
She does.
However, her clerical
and organizational skills
are excellent.
Nevertheless, you admit to
having words with the victim?
Yes.
Do you own a gun?
Of course.
There many dangers
out in the Badlands.
So you won't object
to me examining it.
Of course not, but you
will be wasting your time.
Mr. Blake, you do know how to
prepare fossils for transport?
Really, Detective, of
course I know how to.
And yes, I could have
done that to Lukas,
but so could anyone
at our camp--
or, for that matter, Sutton's.
Rudolph Sutton?
He was there?
He was always digging near
my expeditions-- I'm sure,
in part, to provoke me, but
really it's because he's
totally lacking in imagination.
And where was
his camp, exactly?
Few miles from us in the
Red Deer River Valley.
He was digging up
Magnoliopsidas.
RUDOLPH SUTTON: Idiot.
The man is an idiot.
Magnoliopsida?
No, no, no, no, no.
It's Nielsonia.
Yeah, from the order
Cicadalles, not Magnoliopsida.
This is-- you see?
This is it.
It's just further proof
of his incompetence.
Professor Sutton, why are
you so adamant that Mr. Blake
is undeserving of respect?
Nothing larger
than a guinea pig
has ever been found at
the Edmonton formation
where he was digging.
Did his-- did his
Terrasaurus burrow
through 200 feet of
cretaceous sediment
before conveniently
expiring for posterity?
And what were you
hoping to find there?
Well, I-- I was nowhere
near the Edmonton formation.
No?
Mr. Blake said that
you were no more
than two miles away from him.
Two-- two miles, yes.
Two miles, but millions
of years, Detective.
I was working the
Scollard formation.
It's as different
as night from day.
But I-- what does this
have to do with anything?
Professor, we know that Lukas
DeWitt was killed in Alberta.
He was shot in the head.
His body was encased
like a fossil.
He was shipped back
here to Toronto,
and then his body was put on
display in the dinosaur's jaws.
Right.
Oh, you think that I could
do something so monstrous?
Well, I'm a man of science.
Do you own a gun, sir?
Yes.
It's for fending off
thieves and coyotes.
I'll need to
perform tests on it.
You're serious.
Most.
[GUNSHOT]
INSP.
BRACKENREID: (FAINTLY) Hey!
Hey!
Bloody hell, Murdoch!
How many times have I
told you about firing
off a gun inside the station?
Just testing out
a new design, sir.
However, I had hoped the blast
would be somewhat more muffled.
What's inside the box?
Cotton, sir, and straw.
What for?
In the past, I've used
water to slow the bullet's
impact when collecting them.
Yes, yes, the rain barrels.
In actual fact,
water is very dense,
and the lead slugs were
being damaged by hitting it.
The cotton's softer.
Precisely.
I'm hoping to preserve as much
evidentiary value as possible.
Ah.
Here it is.
Ah!
Ah.
Perfect condition.
Now for Mr. Sutton's gun.
Murdoch, you can fire as
many pistols as you like,
but they won't do you
any good, now will they?
Why is that?
Because you don't have a
bullet to compare them to.
Haven't I?
There were strict
orders prohibiting
that body being touched.
And it wasn't.
Stop talking in riddles.
Sir, Mr. DeWitt's body
has not been touched.
However, I do have the means
to examine that bullet.
And how do you plan on
doing that, me old mucker?
[SWITCHES FLIPPING]
Radiography?
That's it, sir.
And this enables you
to see through things?
Yes.
Amazing, isn't it?
INSP.
BRACKENREID: But how
is that possible?
X-rays
X-rays?
So named by their
discoverer, Dr.
Roentgen, who didn't know what
they were, "x-actly." [LAUGHS]
In actual fact,
they are light rays,
only made of magnetic energy.
And these rays are able
to penetrate and pass
through matter, allowing
them to be captured
on this photographic plate.
Now, since all objects
have different densities--
Murdoch, I'll take
your word for it.
Where did you happen to
find this contraption?
Oh.
Well, I may have borrowed
it from the hospital.
I like your initiative, Doctor.
Can you hold this, Inspector?
Of course.
Like this?
Yes.
Now the gun is in position.
You may fire when ready.
Fire?
Fire what?
Is-- is this thing safe?
[POWERS ON]
[POWERS DOWN]
Oh my.
Well, did it work?
See for yourself, sir.
Bloody hell.
It's the man's skull.
It's miraculous, isn't it?
And the bullet entered here?
Yes.
And metal is revealed by this?
Exactly.
Then unless I'm not even more
confused than I think I am,
shouldn't I be seeing a bullet?
What?
It seems our
bullet has vanished.
A bullet doesn't
simply disappear
from inside of a man's skull.
You sure this x-ray contraption
really works, Doctor?
I'm certain of it.
I tested it several times.
Then where did the bullet go?
It was never there.
Then how did the
bullet hole get there?
Something penetrated the
skull, but it wasn't a bullet.
It simply created an
entrance wound similar to what
a bullet would have.
So what kind of weapon
are we looking for?
May I see the radiograph again?
Whatever it was, it must
have been fairly sharp.
To puncture the skull.
Yeah, not shatter
it completely.
Precisely.
I wonder what this area is.
Some brain tissue?
A tumor, perhaps?
Fragments of the skull?
No, I see those.
Could it be debris
left behind by whatever
penetrated the skull?
That's what I'm wondering.
I could possibly retrieve
a sample through the wound.
That wouldn't really
constitute opening up the body,
now would it?
I wouldn't think so, no.
What have we here?
It's clumped, but
it seems granular.
Could it be more plaster from
when the body was wrapped?
No, it's too
coarse for plaster.
I believe it's
soil of some sort.
I suppose it could have entered
the wound when our victim fell.
William?
A pick.
Could it have been
a geologist's pick?
Well, I suppose-- well, that
would have made a hole the size
and shape of the wound.
And it would account
for the debris.
Geology pick.
Always struck me as such an
innocent, hopeful little tool.
Everyone at that site would
have had access to one.
Yes, of course.
Most unfortunate for
your investigation.
Do you have any idea
what kind of soil this is?
I don't know.
Limestone, perhaps?
What are you thinking?
Blake and Sutton were working
in different sedimentary
layers, each layer with
its own unique composition.
So if you could determine
which layer the soil came from,
you'd have your killer.
At the very least, I'd know
which camp it came from.
I have an associate
in the geology
department at the university.
I could have a sample sent over.
[KNOCK]
Sir?
Yes, George, come in.
GEORGE: What are
you looking at, sir?
Oh, it's a geological map
of the Alberta Badlands.
Mr. Blake was working here
in the Edmonton formation,
Mr. Sutton in the
Scollard Formation,
right here, further
down by the river.
Sir, what exactly do
they mean by formation?
Well, they're layers
of rock created
by sediment deposited over
millions and millions of years.
Millions of years ago.
Boggles the mind just to think
about it, doesn't it, sir?
Certainly does.
I mean, my aunt believes that
the world is 6,000 years old--
based on the Bible, of course.
Well, she would
be a literalist.
Much like the young man with
the hammer, I would suspect.
Their views bring them into
direct conflict with men
like Sutton and
Blake who believe
in the evolutionary
development of the world.
Mm.
She believes that the
world was made in six days,
and that's the end of it.
Myself, I take a bit more
of a scientific perspective.
Oh?
I do, but I don't think
the two schools of thought
need be exclusive.
I mean, what if, in the
distant, distant past,
each rotation of the Earth
took millions of years?
Well--
Or, from a biblical viewpoint,
what if God paused for millions
of years between each day?
I mean, Genesis
doesn't say anything
about consecutive days.
George--
Or, better yet, what
if one day in heaven
is a few millions of
years here on Earth?
Maybe that's why God
hasn't made himself
apparent to us in so long.
It's still the seventh day.
He's still resting.
But maybe tomorrow, the
eighth day will begin,
and he'll create
something entirely new,
something just as
important as land or water.
Such as?
A horse that could
run backwards.
I mean, think about it.
You would never
need to turn around.
George, do you have any
pertinent information
about this case?
Uh, yes, three things.
First off, I spoke with
Mr. DeWitt's banker,
and there's nothing fishy
going on with his accounts.
Secondly?
Uh, secondly, we
haven't been able to find
anything about this young chap
who had a go at the fossil.
We've been to every
church downtown.
Nobody seems to know who he is.
Well, that's odd.
I thought so, as well.
I am confident, however,
that we'll find him.
Thirdly, I went through Mr.
DeWitt's journal, as you asked.
I took the liberty
of copying it out.
Cursive script was not
one of his strong suits.
George, did you find anything
relevant to this investigation?
Mr. DeWitt did seem to have
somewhat of an obsession
with one particular area.
He made note of it many times.
What area is that?
Well, actually, I recognize
it on your map here.
It's right there.
As the study of
paleontology has taught me,
time marches forward.
We are but a small part of an
ever-changing, ever-evolving
world, and the time has come for
me to march forward, as well.
So it is with pleasure--
and, admittedly, some
sadness-- I turn
over this expedition
and project to my worthy
and capable colleague,
Mary Ann McConnell.
Thank you, Mr. Blake,
for your confidence
in me and my abilities.
The expedition won't be
the same without you.
Nor will it be the same without
Lukas DeWitt, whose death
has cast such a pall
on what was supposed
to be a happy occasion.
I hope I can make
you both proud.
Now, any questions for me?
REPORTER: Uh, yes,
Miss McConnell--
DET.
MURDOCH: Oh, Mr. Blake.
Detective.
REPORTER: Future
plans for the project?
MARY ANN MCCONNELL: Well--
I'm somewhat surprised by
this sudden turn of events.
Why?
Miss McConnell is an industrious
woman and a fine bone hunter.
She convinced me she
deserved the opportunity.
It seems to contradict
your earlier assessment
of Miss McConnell's abilities.
I'm a proud man, Detective.
I don't like to lose,
including at love.
I said some things about Miss
McConnell to you that I regret.
But in the sober light
of second thought,
I know this is the
right thing to do.
Of course.
And what of you?
I'll take some time
before making a decision.
But I assure you,
whatever I do next
will make my last adventure
pale in comparison.
Now, is there some way I
can help you, Detective?
Yes, there is.
I was wondering
if you could tell
me what was at that location.
Yes, of course.
That's where I
discovered the femur.
Why do you ask?
It's just that Mr.
DeWitt noted the location
several times in his journals.
As well he should.
It's a very important discovery.
Indeed it is.
Thank you very much for
your time, Mr. Blake.
Ah, Detective.
Miss McConnell.
Um, have you good news?
I hope to soon.
But in the meantime, it seems
congratulations are in order.
Oh, thank you.
It's been a long time coming.
Indeed it has.
Good day.
[FLASH BULB POPS]
DR. OGDEN: William.
I believe I had something
that might interest you.
The results came
back on the soil
we found in our victim's skull.
Oh, good.
Were they able to determine
which formation it came from?
No.
No?
So another dead-end?
Well, they couldn't because
it wasn't soil at all.
What was it?
Pulverized concrete.
Concrete?
Well, there was plaster at
the site, but no concrete.
Perhaps they were
building something?
Hm.
Maybe they were.
What is the meaning of this?
That bone should be on its way
to the train station by now.
Who gave you permission
to examine it?
This court order should
be permission enough.
Really, Detective,
what is this all about?
Mr. Blake, I need to take
a very special photograph
of your spectacular find.
Allow me to introduce Inspector
Brackenreid, Dr. Ogden.
They'll be assisting me.
Mr. Blake.
Doctor.
BARKELEY BLAKE: Uh, well,
shall I pose with it?
Oh, I should think the bone
will be all that's needed.
Would you once again hold the
photographic plate, Inspector?
Certainly.
You are sure this is safe?
Of course.
Everything is ready, Detective.
Very good.
[POWERS ON]
[POWERS OFF]
Are you sure it
worked, Detective?
I didn't see any
flash powder go off.
It worked perfectly.
Mr. Blake, your
prized fossil seems
to have an iron rod running
through the middle of it.
I don't believe it.
Fake?
Who would perpetrate
such a hoax?
Let me think.
Perhaps someone who
hasn't made a significant
find in eight years?
Someone who has been
sustaining his career
through a combination of luck,
exploitation of his workers,
and an unnerving drive
for center stage?
Do you truly think
me that stupid?
I think you're that desperate.
I think Mr. DeWitt had
discovered what you had done.
He'd been making a
careful study of the area,
keeping meticulous records.
In one of his field
journal entries,
he noted that you
found the femur
beneath Cenozoic detritus.
There were no dinosaurs
in the Cenozoic era.
That doesn't make sense.
I agree.
And I suspect it didn't make
sense to DeWitt, either.
You said yourself
he knew his strata.
So when he came to you
for an explanation,
you realized he could expose
your fraud and killed him.
And then packed up his body,
transported it to Toronto,
and stuffed him in
a dinosaur's mouth
in order to run the most
triumphant moment of my life?
You had everything
to lose, Mr. Blake.
And I was very
nearly destroyed.
I'm the victim here, Detective.
Can't you see that?
Someone is clearly
out to destroy me.
[KNOCK]
Am I free to go?
For now.
But I am nowhere near finished
with you yet, Mr. Blake.
Rest assured of that.
You found the young
man with the hammer?
Actually, sir, it was
Higgins who found him.
I, uh, recognized him
from this photo taken
at the Dinosaur Ball, sir.
But he's no more a churchgoer
than Satan himself.
Oh?
No, he's a panhandler
on my beat, sir.
Goes by Clyde Dunbar.
Think he'd sell his
own mother for a dime.
And where is he now?
He's cooling his heels
in one of the cells.
Mr. Dunbar.
Who's asking?
I'm Detective William Murdoch.
That supposed to
mean something?
Perhaps.
Such as?
Such as whether
you hang or not.
Wait a minute.
What are you talking about?
Mr. Dunbar, the
last time I saw you,
you had a hammer in your hand
and you were attacking a fossil
in the name of the Lord.
You're mistaking me
for some other lad.
Moments later, a man
was found murdered,
and I think you had
something to do with it.
Now hold on there.
You got it all wrong.
I didn't have nothing
to do with any murder.
I'm not even a religious man.
Then what was all that yelling
about hellfire and blasphemy?
[SIGH]
That's what he told me to say.
Who?
That's what who told you to say?
I don't know.
A man.
Came up to me on
the street, said
he'd give me a
fiver if I smashed
that bone with a hammer.
So I got on as a
waiter at the hall,
and-- well, you were there.
This man, can you describe him?
He was old, about your age.
I see.
Was he balding?
Thick glasses,
close-cropped beard?
Yeah, that's him.
And if you see him, tell him
he still owes me the money.
RUDOLPH SUTTON: A
fake-- a fake, you say?
Are you absolutely certain?
I am.
I was able to examine
it using a radiograph.
Oh.
That is something that
I never considered
when I devised my plan.
You admit to building
the bone, then?
Proudly.
The truth finally comes out.
I, uh, I am only sorry that
I failed to publicly expose
Blake for the fool that he is.
I don't think you quite
realize the seriousness of the
situation you're in, Professor.
Oh, I understand.
I understand all too well.
I was so close!
So close.
It was going to be
Barkeley's utter ruin.
And in front of the National
Geographic Society, no less.
But unfortunately, Lukas
DeWitt had to get in the way.
He suspected the bone was a fake
and confronted you about it.
He did no such thing.
But your need to destroy
Blake was so great,
you killed DeWitt to keep
him from exposing your plan.
No, I only wanted
revenge on Barkeley.
I had no differences with Lukas.
D-- Detective, you may think
me a small and petty man,
but I'm no murderer.
Was it worth it, Professor?
To reveal Barkeley as a fraud?
Yes.
You'll forever be
remembered as the man
who perpetrated this hoax.
The hoax may be
remembered, may not.
And-- and as for me, I-- I have
always been a forgettable man.
For future generations, my
contribution to this discipline
will never be forgotten,
and-- and that,
Detective, is as it should be.
I take it you
received permission
to conduct the post-mortem?
Under the supervision
of the tiresome Dr.
Hitchcock of Philadelphia.
Fortunately, he was more
interested in a side trip
to Niagara Falls than
the post-mortem itself.
And I hope you have
some good news for me.
Is the case frustrating you?
I have two suspects, Mr.
Blake and Professor Sutton,
both with means,
motive, and opportunity.
Unfortunately, I haven't
a shred of evidence
to tie either to the murder.
I'm afraid I'm not going
to be of much help to you.
My original supposition
was correct.
Lukas DeWitt died as a
result of trauma to the head.
However, the post-mortem
wasn't without
its interesting revelations.
I discovered some fascinating
things about mummification.
Such as?
Well, the process can
actually start as quickly as
within three days of
death, so Mr. DeWitt's skin
had already begun to harden.
Interesting.
Isn't it?
What's fascinating
is, it actually began
to meld around his clothing.
In fact, I found tiny marks
where the weight of the plaster
had pressed his shirt
buttons against his skin.
I could even see that
he wore some sort
of medallion or pendant.
That's odd.
Nothing like that was
found on his body.
Well, it was on his person
when he was wrapped in plaster.
You can see the
mark for yourself.
It's hard to detect, but if
you find the right angle,
you'll note it has a
very distinctive pattern.
Dr. Ogden, have you a candle?
Recognize this?
It's a replica of an ammonite.
What of it?
It's a cast of an imprint we
found on Lukas DeWitt's body.
It was caused by a fossil-shaped
pendant that was on his body
when he was wrapped in plastic.
However, the pendant wasn't
there when we found his body.
Must have been lost, then.
May I see yours?
There's no need.
Your match.
I know you killed him.
You wrapped and
plastered his body
and shipped here
like another rock.
You don't know anything.
And then you left his body
for the world to discover.
What I can't understand is why?
Because I wanted
Barkeley to pay.
He took everything
from me, everything.
He took credit for my work.
He denied me my proper
due at every turn.
He took the life of
the man who loved me.
What happened?
I-- I'd forgotten
to put my pick away,
so I walked back to get it.
And that's when I
saw them arguing.
Barkeley grabbed my pick
and hit Lukas with it.
[JUICY CRUNCH]
It was an accident.
People are rarely hit in the
back of the head with a pick
by accident, Mr. Blake.
I mean I was not in control
of myself at the time.
Lukas confronted you
about the bone, didn't he?
He did.
He couldn't understand
how I'd found it.
He accused me of
having faked it.
When he showed me
it was concrete,
I realized I'd been had.
DET.
MURDOCH: But what
neither of you realized
was that Sutton put it
there for you to find.
[LAUGHS]
I have to hand to Rudolph.
It was a brilliant
plan, and I fell for it.
But by then, you
had already contacted
the National Geographic Society
about your extraordinary find.
Eight years ago, I was
just another geologist,
and then I stumbled on
something that made me special.
I knew that until I
repeated that success,
I would still be a
fraud in my own mind.
And if news got out, you
would have been ruined.
So you panicked.
I wanted so badly for
that bone to be real.
[JUICY CRUNCH]
But it didn't
end there, did it?
There was so much
excavation going on
in the area, new expeditions
coming in-- I couldn't
risk the body being found.
Inevitable questions would
lead right back to me.
So I prepared his body
like the other fossils.
I planned to dispose of them
later after the exhibition.
And what about the
Terrasaurus bone?
You couldn't risk
it being discovered
as a fake at some later date.
I'd arrange for it to be stolen
in transit to the American
Museum of Natural History.
Leaving Professor
Sutton to have
to come up with some other
scheme to discredit you.
I suppose so, yes.
Detective, I spent so much
time amongst the dead,
yet it never
prepared me for this.
No.
I suppose it didn't.
DR. OGDEN: So Miss McConnell
was blackmailing Mr. Blake.
She happened upon the murder
as it was being committed.
And she chose not
to go to the police?
Yes.
She chose instead to use
the murder against him.
Against him?
To what end?
To further her career.
But Barkeley refused to give
in to her demands-- initially.
So to prove she was serious,
she put the body on display
for the world to see.
Yes.
She took Lukas's body when
it first arrived here,
before Blake could retrieve
it, and in doing so
became an accessory
after the fact to murder.
Amongst a number of other
charges, I should think.
Precisely.
You seem to be quite
affected by this one.
The world of the
dinosaur hunter
has fascinated me
since childhood.
And when I finally
venture there,
I find it's a haven for ruthless
ambition and petty jealousy.
For years, I've dreamt of
visiting the Alberta Badlands
and exploring them myself.
But now--
William, you can't
let this brief moment
in history change things.
McConnell, Blake, Sutton--
they're just blinks in time.
And as for Alberta, I'm sure
that when you do get there,
it'll be everything
you've always dreamed of.
[BIRD CALLING]
[AOOGA]
BOY: It says here that this is
where Barnum Brown discovered
his Albertosaurus skeleton.
Really?
Charlie Stonebrook had
a camp near here, too.
I suppose Blake and
Sutton must have worked
around here somewhere also.
Who?
Barkeley Blake
and Rudolph Sutton.
They were involved in a case
I worked on a long time ago.
Slow down.
Have to wait for your mother.
[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]